# Methanol-and-terpene-sensors
An Integrated Methanol and Terpene Sensing Platform for Real-Time VOC Profiling of Nitrogen-Stressed Cotton Plants.
SAS analysis and Duncan mulitple range test was used for doing statistical analysis.
Excel regression data analysis was used for correlations between VOC and physiology.

# All the data in the spreadsheet are title below
Figure 6 (a) Calibration curve of the methanol sensor for 12, 25 and 50 cycles of spray deposited PtNPs at room temperature with concentration axis in logarithm scale. (b) Sensor response measured at 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% and 90% RH. (c) Selectivity test conducted under different interfering gases including CH4, C2H4, and NH3, and their mixtures, as well as the target gas methanol (CH3OH). (d) Calibration curve of the α-pinene sensor for 10 µL of MIP drop-cast. (e) Sensor response measured at 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% and 90% RH. (f) Selectivity test conducted under different interfering gases including CH4, C2H4, NH3, CH3OH and their mixtures, as well as the target gas α-pinene.
# Figure 7. 
(a) S1 and (b) S2 methanol sensor responses from cotton plants under N stress, with data recorded daily. (c) S3 and (d) S4 methanol sensor responses from cotton plants under high N treatment conditions, with data recorded daily. 
# Figure 8. 
(a) T1 and (b) T2 α-pinene sensor responses from cotton plants under N-stress, with data recorded daily. (c) T3, and (d) T4 α-pinene sensor responses from cotton plants under high N treatment conditions, with data recorded daily.
# Figure 9. 
(a) S1, (b) S2, (c) S3, (d) S4, and (e) S5 methanol sensor responses from cotton plants under N- stress conditions, with data recorded every other day. (f) S6, (g) S7, (h) S8, (i) S9, and (j) S10 methanol sensor responses from cotton plants under high N treatment conditions, with data recorded every other day.
# Figure 10. 
(a) T1, (b) T2, (c) T3, (d) T4, (e) T5 and (f) T6 α-pinene sensor responses from cotton plants under N-stress conditions, with data recorded every other day. (g) T7, (h) T8, (i) T9, (j) T10, (k) T11 and (l) T12 methanol sensor responses from cotton plants under high N treatment conditions, with data recorded every other day.
# Figure 11. 
(a) The daily average distribution of methanol concentrations for five sensors S1, S2, S3, S6, and S7 across two treatments groups: low nitrate in the soil and 250ppm/kg of nitrate in the soil.  (b) The daily average distribution of methanol concentrations for replica sensors (S4, S5, S8, S9, and S10) across the same two treatment groups. (c) A scatter plot depicting the daily methanol concentrations and the distribution of mean methanol concentrations for sensors S1, S2, S3, S6, and S7, comparing the low nitrate and high nitrate treatments. (d) A scatter plot for the replica sensors (S4, S5, S8, S9, and S10), showing daily methanol concentrations and the distribution of mean concentrations for both low and high nitrate treatments. (e) A distribution plot for methanol concentrations from the low nitrate treatment and high nitrate treatment (250 ppm/kg nitrate) groups for sensors S1, S2, S3, S6, and S7. (f) A distribution plot of methanol concentrations for the low and high nitrate treatment groups for replica sensors (S4, S5, S8, S9, and S10). 
# Figure 12. 
(a) The daily average distribution of α-pinene concentrations for six sensors T1, T2, T3, T7, T8 and T9 across two treatments groups: low nitrate in the soil and 250ppm/kg of nitrate in the soil.  (b) The daily average distribution of α-pinene concentrations for replica sensors (T4, T5, T6, T10, T11 and T12) across the same two treatment groups. (c) A scatter plot depicting the daily α-pinene concentrations and the distribution of mean α-pinene concentrations for sensors T1, T2, T3, T7, T8 and T9, comparing the low nitrate and high nitrate treatments. (d) A scatter plot for the replica sensors (T4, T5, T6, T10, T11 and T12), showing daily α-pinene concentrations and the distribution of mean concentrations for both low and high nitrate treatments. (e) A distribution plot for α-pinene concentrations from the low nitrate treatment and high nitrate treatment (250 ppm/kg nitrate) groups for sensors T1, T2, T3, T7, T8 and T9. (f) A distribution plot of α-pinene concentrations for the low and high nitrate treatment groups for replica sensors (T4, T5, T6, T10, T11 and T12).
# Figure 13. 
Leaf chlorophyll index and stomatal conductance measurements using a SPAD meter and a porometer, respectively: Chlorophyll index of (a) N stressed, pot 1, (b) N stressed, pot 2, and (c) N stressed, pot 3. (d) Chlorophyll index of N control (250ppm/ kg of N treatment), pot 4, (e) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 5, and (f) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 6. Stomatal conductance of (g) N stressed, pot 1, (h) N stressed, pot 2, and (i) N stressed, pot 3. Stomatal conductance of (j) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 4, (k) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 5, and (l) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 6.
# Figure 14. 
(a) Correlation between chlorophyll index and methanol concentrations. (b) Correlation between stomatal conductance and methanol concentrations. (c) Correlation between chlorophyll index and α-pinene concentrations. (d) Correlation between stomatal conductance and α-pinene concentrations. 
# Figure C.1. 
Performance comparison of the custom-designed data logger and Hewlett Packard 34401A multimeter measurements for two methanol sensors at concentrations of 3.5 ppm, 10 ppm and 25 ppm.
# Figure D.1. 
Soil nitrate data measured between 11AM to 12PM by Ward lab and a potentiometric nitrate sensor: Ward lab data for (a) N stressed, pot 1, (b) N stressed, pot 2, and (c) N stressed, pot 3. Ward lab data for (d) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 4, (e) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 5, and (f) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 6. Potentiometric nitrate sensor measurements for (g) N stressed, pot 1, (h) N stressed, pot 2, and (i) N stressed, pot 3. Potentiometric nitrate sensor measurements for (j) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 4, (k) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 5, and (l) N control (250ppm/kg of N treatment), pot 6.
# Figure E.1. 
(a) Duncan grouping of methanol means by date (α = 0.05). (b) Duncan grouping of methanol means by treatment (α = 0.05). (c) Duncan grouping of α-pinene means by date (α = 0.05). (d) Duncan grouping of α-pinene means by treatment (α = 0.05).
